The jerrogan experience, but I think like, you know,
um, those moments, um, you know,
I needed that I needed to, to combine our energies, you know,
because look how that fight ended up going. You know,
I felt like <affirmative> like that,
that fight before the fight was to prep me for the fight,
you know, mm-hmm <affirmative> um, and, um, you know,
going there, obviously I'm a big underdog, you know,
uh, it's in London, Maasi has so much history he's from Amsterdam.
Um, you know, I don't know if any,
anyone out there saw the video that Bellator put out afterwards where I said
like, you know, we did it and, and you could see how emotional I was,
this is why, you know, right. Um,
and fast forward to when we're back backstage,
um, you know, getting ready to go out there. Um,
I always take, uh, my favorite book think and grow rich from Napoleon hill.
I always take that. Why is that? It's just a,
a powerful book for my life. Um,
I discovered it in 2000, the end of 2007,
um, and it's just such an inspirational book, um,
and really kind of like was the, sort of the,
the Bible for self-help books and, um, all the other, you know,
people that kind of came from that, like Tony Robbins and things like that,
like, you know, the, the, um, the motivating, you know,
like the secret, you know, all those sort of things, um,
think and grow rich was like the first. Mm. And, um,
and anyways, there's so many quotes in there, um,
and things that just have stuck with me throughout the years,
and I love to read certain chapters and,
and Porsche of it when I'm backstage getting ready to fight. Um,
and I have like highlighted sentences and notes in
it and stuff, and I'm backstage. And I open,
I opened the book and I hadn't opened it, uh, up to this point on this trip.
Like, it was just with me, I put it in my bag and, you know,
I got a couple hours to go out to fight and I always open it up. And, uh,
as soon as I open it, I it's on the, you know,
the flap isn't inside in a chapter already. Um,
in the last place I looked at it or whatever.
And first thing I see is a highlighted, highlighted, uh,
portion that says every adversity carries with it,
a seed of an equivalent advantage.
That was the first thing that I saw and it hit me right there.
It was like everything that I went through in this camp to get to this fight,
you know, that is gonna be my advantage.
That is gonna be what carries me through this fight. That that's my power.
I know what I'm here for. That's a great quote. It's the best, you know,
every adversity carries with it, the seed of an equivalent advantage.
Another one of my favorites from Napoleon hill that I've used on t-shirts and
inside Agui before, um,
victory is always possible for the person who refuses to stop fighting,
you know, which is that's martial arts, right? Mm that's.
A black belt is a white belt who never quit, you know? Mm.
As long as you never quit, success is always possible.
Every failure just helps you learn and grow to, to, you know,
get to your ultimate objective, your ultimate goal.
And when I saw that, you know, writing that book down right now yeah.
Think and grow rich. And the point L I tell all my, all my students,
all my competitors, all my guys, I always talk about that book. Um,
and, and that was the first thing that I saw, you know, and, and like I said,
like going into of this fight, all I wanted was that fight,
like trying to get approved. That whole process was just like,
Hey, just give me this one, just gimme this one more.
Don't stop me this short of, of my dream, you know,
my dream to fight for the belt to fight a legendary fighter.
Like massasi someone that's been <affirmative>, you know,
at the top for so long, that was how I envisioned, you know,
fighting for my first big world title, uh, in MMA.
And I mean, I was going out there, like, that was the last fight of my life.
Like it could potentially be the last fight of my life, you know,
and all this stuff with my health, like know when I'm thinking about my,
my parents and my family, you know, like wondering, you know,
am I gonna get hurt? Is this, am I, you know,
gonna do something where selfishly, where, because I want this, I wanna fight,
I want this, this title that something could happen to me. And,
and, you know, um, I'm not gonna be healthy.
I'm not gonna be the same and I'm gonna break their hearts.
I had all these emotions and thoughts and, and, you know, I was just like,
like, I was literally kind of, I mean, and it's so to speak,
going out there, ready to die, like ready to just let it all out.
Like this is it. Uh, you know, all I wanted was this opportunity,
you know? And, um,
and I could feel how all of that was to prep me for the fight, you know,
everything that we went through that fight to get to the fight.
And my dad's in my corner, you know, he's in all my corner for all my fights.
I had have the guys that went through everything, you know,
those that last four or five weeks before the fight to get approved with
me. And when I saw that, I looked around at them and I smiled.
I said, guys, we're gonna do it. We're gonna do it. You know, it was like,
it was destiny. And, um, and I don't know, um, you know,
if you've ever seen,
but I I've posted before some clips of my dad who is a professional organist,
uh, or former professional organist, but he still plays the organ.
He's a musician. Um, and when I,
when I walked out for this fight, I, uh,
I had them play a, a clip of my, my dad playing the organ.
And, uh, you know, growing up when I first started training martial arts,
my dad was playing the organ at that time, uh, professionally. And, uh,
that was, that was, I did the time that I spent with my dad,
I was at church listening to him, play the organ,
and then we would go to the academy and, uh, and we would, you know,
we would train, um, or we would train at home and, you know,
my father's in my corner and you know, this is,
this is our work. You know, I am who I, I am because of him.
I'm a martial artist because of him. I have my brothers,
the guys I've been training with for over a decade. Um, you know, it was,
it was, it was our destiny, it was family, you know,
we were going out there to fight as a family and, uh, and walking out to,
to my dad, playing the Oregon, um, you know, it just really,
it, it, it, it took me to this place where it's like,
I'm gonna give everything. I absolutely have win or lose.
I'm, I'm, I'm, you know, I'm not gonna stop.
I'm gonna do my best, my absolute best. And, and then, you know,
the fight went the way it did, came down to the fifth round, you know, um,
that's where that fifth round came from, was, was for,
for them, you know, the, the, the love that they gave me to,
to get me even just to get me there, you know, cause I was ready to break man.
I was, I, I, I, I was in pieces so many days, uh,
in that camp. I, uh, you know, it, it was, um,
it was just a rollercoaster of emotions, but having them, you know,
my father, my brothers behind me, that's where that strength came from. And, uh,
and everything we went through before the fight. But, uh,
that's why I was so in the cage, I mean,
you'd be emotional anyways for a title fight, but, um, you know, it, it was,
uh, it was something else just to,
just to get there, you know, and, and have that opportunity.
And you could really outta UCO, I mean, outta UCO, he
he's right there with his hands. Like, it's a powerful moment right.
There. Woo. Did it bother you that, uh,
he was, uh, he had a lot of sour grapes after the fight gaygar did.
It, did it, did he.
Didn't uh, didn't really credit you for the fight.
He was just saying mostly that you were on steroids.
I see my mom. Yeah. Paying her respect, giving him a hug.
Yeah. I mean, I understand that he felt bad cuz he lost,
but I felt like the way he handled it was uncharacteristic for him.
He was attbuting.
So too, we were so respectful before, after the fight, I went up to him,
you know, before they made the decision, I went up to him, I shook his hand.
I said, man, it was an honor, you know, so much respect for you. Um,
it was an honor to battle with you, you know, I thanked him, thank you.
And we shook hands and hugged and, and, uh know,
but then he didn't stay after they raised my hand. He, he walked right out.
We didn't shake hands again and then everything else. Yeah. Really surprised me.
Um, I, I think it was just hard to, to fathom because you know,
this was my 10th fight he had already had over 50 mm-hmm <affirmative> he was a
big, he was a big favorite. Uh, I, I just don't think, um,
he, he, they were very confident. They were very confident, um,
leading up to the fight and I don't think anyone imagined me to walk out of
there with that belt. Um.
Especially with one leg <laugh> he didn't.
Know about that. It hurt really bad after.
Um, I'm sure.
But uh, you know, I didn't feel it like I that's when the adrenaline's pumping.
Right. You know, I, I didn't, it wasn't until like an hour later I was like,
woo. Right. It's pretty tight.
Um, yeah. Why do you think he did that? Why do you, why do you think, I mean,
he's lost before.
I've never seen him just attribute essentially
attribute most of your success. He was is accusing you of taking steroids. Yeah.
And not a little bit of steroids. You were saying like monkey steroids.
That's what he said. Yeah.
I don't know. Uh, you know, his camp had a,
I felt like massasi is genuinely like what I would call, uh,
you know, a real martial artist. He's a,
he's a martial artist and doesn't really ever, or, you know, trash talk,
anybody mm-hmm <affirmative>. Um, and we were very respectful, but you know,
his camp was,
they were saying and doing some things that were a little edgiier I would say
when we a little douchier yeah. Yeah. When we, uh, tried to do classy, when we,
uh, were at the press conference and we were going off for the face off, I,
you know, all his camp were always yelling a bunch of things. And, and um,
you know, when we were walking up one guy yells up to me, dead man walking.
And of course immediate in my mind, I'm like I have this brain disease,
you know, that, uh, you know,
may or may not be an issue here. And a couple days when we fight, you know, and,
and I have my family right there, I'm like, Hmm.
And then I have to look at him in the eyes, you know,
but now I'll never forget that. I thought about that, you know,
dead man walking. And I was just like this guy,
you know? And, um, it was a lot, it was a lot to take in, uh,
to step into that cage.
But I think maybe some of the people he's around, maybe.
That doesn't, I mean, that doesn't cause him to say those things.
When he was sitting at the di the,
the table with the microphone in front of him, did you respond to that?
No. I mean, uh, that was right when we were walking the face off,
um, and the press conference was basically done at that point.
So I had nothing to say to that, you know, that, uh,
that person yelling that and, you know, no. And I mean, after the.
Fight, when he was accusing you.
Of steroids, did you ever, no, I never, never had a, a moment to,
you know, I, I we'd ever had another, haven't had another fight. Haven't been,
never did.
An interview or anybody talk to you about his.
Accusations? Um, uh, no. Who was it? I did one Luke Thomas,
Luke Thomas, um, did an interview with me. I like that guy a lot. Yeah. Yeah.
Uh, um, and, uh, I think it was
AF no. Yeah, it was before he fought maeeita it was before he fought Machita.
Um, and he talked to me about it, you know,
in an interview about the fight and everything. And, uh, you know,
I didn't have too much to say other than I just felt like it was a little sad
because it was a great fight, you know? Yeah. It was a really great fight and,
um, a good fight, fight, close fight. He, yeah, super close. Um,
I feel like we kind of, you know, I, I,
he probably thinks that he was under par and, uh,
and I made a lot of mistakes too,
and I wasn't too happy about some of the things that,
that happened in that fight as well. I thought I could have done a lot better,
but in a way I felt like we kind of brought out the best of each other.
You know, his jujitsu very much impressed me. Uh, he was,
he was a season pro just like always calm. And,
you know, then when he had his moment, he had his moment,
he started taking over, you know, and, uh, and I, you know, I,
it brought out the best in me and the,
the heart that I showed coming and back in that fifth round. Um,
and I just felt like it was a great fight and we should be applauding each other
for our performances. And, uh, and all this, you know,
trash talking has really taken away from that. Yeah.
I.